---
title: "7. Ball Off the Table"
date: 2017-09-05T17:20:08-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "rules"
    weight: 120
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "ball-off-the-table"
aliases: []
toc: true
---

If the ball leaves the playing area and strikes the score markers, light fixture, or any object that is not part of the table, or if the
ball rolls or comes to rest on the top of the cabinet, it shall be declared off the table. Otherwise, if the ball hits the top of the side
rails or cabinet ends and subsequently returns to the playing surface, the ball is still in play.

## 7.1

The play area shall be defined as the area above the playing surface to the height of the sideboards of the cabinet. The top of the side rails and cabinet ends are only in play if the ball returns to the playing surface.

## 7.2

If the ball enters the serving hole (if present) and returns to the playfield it is still considered to be "in play." If the ball remains in the serving hole, it will be treated as a dead ball between the five-man rods.
  
## 7.3

If a player advances the ball and it subsequently goes off the table, it will be put back into play at the opposing team’s goalie rods. A defensive player is not considered to have advanced the ball if it goes off the table as a result of blocking or reacting to a blocked pass or shot.

## 7.4

A player may not perform any shot that causes the ball to lob or volley over the opponent’s rods (Example: Aerial Shot). It is not considered a penalty if a shot, which leaves the current rod of possession, deflects off another rod and then goes airborne.
  
## 7.5

Penalty for violating rule 7.4 is loss of possession to opponent’s five-man rod for serve.