---
title: "11. Official Time Out"
date: 2017-09-05T19:37:14-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 160
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "official-time-out"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

An Official Time Out does not count towards the two time outs allowed per team per game. After an Official Time Out, the ball
is put back into play as though a regular Time Out was called.

## 11.1

If a Referee is not present at the start of the match, and a dispute arises during play, either team may request a Referee. Such a request can be made at any point during the match that the ball is stopped or dead.
  
### 11.1.1

The first request for a Referee is considered an Official Time Out.

### 11.1.2

If the defensive team makes a request for a Referee while the ball is in play and stopped, and the offensive team simultaneously attempts a pass or shot, the request for a time out will be treated as a distraction by the defensive team. Likewise, a request for a Referee while the ball is in motion will also be considered a distraction.

## 11.2

Once play has resumed with a Referee at the table, any player requesting a second Referee will automatically be charged with a time out. Such a request may only be made during a dead ball or when the ball is not in play. The penalty for requesting another Referee while the ball is in play is a technical foul.

### 11.2.1

If play has resumed with two Referees at the table any request to replace a Referee will be decided by the Head Official or Tournament Organizer. If the request is denied, the player shall be charged with a technical foul.

## 11.3

A team may not switch positions during an Official Time Out, unless they are otherwise entitled to do so ([see 14](/foosball-rules/change-of-position)).

## 11.4

Table Maintenance – Table maintenance should be requested before the start of the match. Once the match has begun, the only time an Official Time Out for table maintenance may be called is for a sudden alteration to the table, such as a broken man, broken screw or pin, defective bumper, bent rod, etc.

### 11.4.1

If a player figure is broken while in contact with the ball, an Official Time Out will be declared while the rod is fixed. Play will resume on the rod where the player figure broke.
    
### 11.4.2

If the table lighting fails, play shall immediately stop at that point (as though an Official Time Out were called).

### 11.4.3

Routine maintenance, such as lubricating the rods, etc., should only be done during time outs and between games.

## 11.5

Foreign objects on field of play - if an object should fall on the playfield, play shall immediately stop at that point and the object shall be removed. Play shall resume from the rod where the ball was when the object hit the playfield. There should be nothing on the ends of the table that could fall onto the playfield. If the ball is in motion it will be put back into play by the player who had last possession.
    
### 11.5.1

If the ball comes into contact with a foreign object on the playfield that was overlooked play shall stop and the object shall be removed. Play shall continue at the rod of possession when play was stopped.

## 11.6

Medical time out - a player or team may request a medical time out. This request must be approved by the Tournament Director, the Head Official, or the referee of the match if the medical necessity is evident. They will determine the length of the medical time out, up to a maximum or 60 minutes. A player who is physically unable to continue playing after that time must forfeit the match.

### 11.6.1

If the request for a medical time out is denied, the player will be charged with a time out. The player may also be penalized for delay of game ([see 25](/foosball-rules/delay-of-game/)), at the discretion of the Referee at the table.
