---
title: "14. Change of Positions"
date: 2017-09-05T20:52:00-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 180
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "change-of-positions"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

In any doubles event, players may only play the two rods normally designated for his position. Once the ball is put into play,
the players must play the same position until a point is scored, a team requests a time out, or a technical foul is called.

## 14.1

Either team may switch positions during a time out, between points, between games, or before and/or after a technical foul shot.

## 14.2

If either team switches positions, they may not switch back until after the ball has been put back into play or a time out has been called. However, if the team in possession switches, the opposing team may also switch positions regardless of whether they have previously switched.

### 14.2.1

A team is considered to have switched positions once both players are in their respective positions facing the table regardless of whether or not they have touched the handles.

## 14.3

Illegally switching positions while the ball is in play will be judged a distraction and the players must return to their original positions.
    
### 14.3.1

In any doubles event any player placing their hand on any rod normally designated as one played by their partner while the ball is in play shall be judged as a distraction violations.

## ♿ Paralympic Events
In Singles, the players may move their wheelchairs between the forward and goalie positions and the ball may be directly
advanced without having to wait for the opponent to get into position. Once the ball is stopped or under control of the three-
man rod, the player must wait for the opponent to get into their defensive position before resuming play. The Ready Protocol
must be followed when resuming play.

## 14.4

The opponent is allowed 3 seconds to reach back and grasp the defensive rods and 5 seconds to move into the defensive position before play may resume. Players are encouraged to employ good sportsmanship if an opponent requires more than 5 seconds due to issues with wheelchair movement.

## 14.5

Violation of this rule is loss of possession and the ball shall be served at the opposing five-man rod.