---
title: "16. Jarring"
date: 2017-09-05T20:59:30-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 200
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "jarring"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

Any banging of the side walls or movement of the table that causes the opponent to lose possession or prevents them from catching the ball is considered a jarring infraction. Simultaneous bumping of the wall, as part of a pass or shot, is not considered jarring unless there was excessive force that clearly prevented the opponent from gaining possession. Jars are accumulated for the entire match.

## 16.1

Any touching or contacting of the opponent's rods that causes them to lose possession or prevents them from catching the ball will be considered a jarring infraction. Contacting an opponent’s rod that does not affect possession will be ruled a distraction.

## 16.2

Jarring of the table or excessively recoiling the rod after scoring a shot may be ruled unsportsmanlike behavior if done so in a disrespecting manner directed at the opponent. Slamming the rod after a shot while the ball is still in play may be considered jarring.

## 16.3

It is illegal for the player in possession of the ball to slam the rods into the side of the table in order to move the ball away from the wall. The first offense is a warning and subsequent violations will be loss of possession to the opposing five-man rod. This is not considered a jarring infraction.

## 16.4

The penalty for the first and second jarring infraction is the opponent’s option to continue play from the current position, from the rod where the jar was called, or they may serve the ball. Subsequent violations will be a Technical foul.
