---
title: "17. Reset"
date: 2017-09-05T21:01:23-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 210
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "reset"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

If a defensive player bumps or shakes the table enough to impair the opponent’s ability to control the ball or execute a pass or shot, the Referee present will say “reset” and the time of possession plus number of times the ball struck the wall shall be reset. The player with the ball is not required to stop play so the defensive player should not relax or look up at the Referee when the call is made.

## 17.1

A ball slightly rocking in place is not considered a reset unless it moves from its set position. A reset can be called if the ball is pinned or moving if the Referee determines that the player’s ability to control the ball or execute a pass or shot has been affected by the opponent.

## 17.2

If a reset is called prior to a pass attempt from the five-man rod and the Referee deems that the reset caused the player to lose the ball or not complete the pass, the ball may be awarded back to the player’s five-man rod. This will not be considered a Jarring infraction.

## 17.3

A reset call is not considered a distraction and the player with the ball may shoot immediately. The defensive team should not relax or look at the Referee upon hearing the word "reset," but rather should stay on defense.

## 17.4

A reset caused from behind the rod of possession shall not be considered a reset violation but will be considered a jarring infraction. (Example: if the opposing forward is judged to have reset his opponent when the opponent has the ball on the three-man rod.)

## 17.5

An intentional reset by the team in possession of the ball for the purposes of attempting to get a reset call from the Referee shall not be allowed. The team judged to be in violation of this rule shall lose possession and the ball shall be served by the opposing team (This is not counted as a reset).
  
## 17.6

After a team is called for their first reset in a game, a team causing two subsequent resets during the same point will be charged with a technical foul. Once the first reset call is made, upon the next violation the Referee present will call “reset warning” or just “warning”. If there is another reset violation on the same ball following a reset warning a technical foul shall be called.

### 17.6.1 

If a technical foul is called for excessive resets, the next reset call shall not result in a technical foul.

### 17.6.2

Resets are charged per team not per player and are also charged per game not per match.

## 17.7

If the defender intentionally jars the table, this will not be considered a reset, and jarring will be called immediately.
