---
title: "18. Reaching Into the Playing Area"
date: 2017-09-05T21:13:47-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 210
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "reaching-into-the-playing-area"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

It is illegal for a player to reach into the play area while the ball is in play without first having permission from the opposing team or Referee whether he touches the ball or not. However, whenever the opposing team or Referee grants a player permission to reach into the playing area, it is legal for the player to do so.

## 18.1

A spinning ball is considered "in-play," even if it is not in reach of a player figure. It is illegal to reach into the playing area to stop a spinning ball, even if done for an opponent.

## 18.2

A ball which becomes airborne over the table is still in play until it has hit something not a part of the playing area. Do not catch a flying ball over the table.

## 18.3

A ball which has gone dead is considered out of play (See Rule 8). The ball may be freely touched once permission has been granted by the Referee, or if no Referee is present, by the opposing team.

## 18.4

A player may wipe shot marks off any part of the table while the ball is not in play. He does not need to ask permission of the opposing team.

## 18.5

The penalty for violating any part of this rule is as follows: If the player has possession of the ball, and the ball is stopped - loss of possession to the opposing team for serve. If the player is not in possession of the ball or the ball is moving – Technical foul. If a player reaches into the playing area to prevent the ball from entering the goal a point is scored for the opposing team and the ball shall be served as if it had gone into the goal.
  
## 18.6

If a technical foul is called for touching a flying ball over the table it will be replayed as follows: If the technical shot is scored it will be served by the opposing team. If the technical shot is not scored it will be served by the non-offending team.
