---
title: "19. Alterations to the Table"
date: 2017-09-05T21:16:33-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 210
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "alterations-to-the-table"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

Playing area - no changes can be made that would affect the interior playing characteristics of the table by any player. This
includes changes to the men, playing surface, bumpers, etc.

## 19.1

Players are not allowed to put sweat, spit, or any foreign substance on their hands to clean ball marks off the table. First offense is a warning and any subsequent violation is a Technical Foul.

### 19.1.1

Only manufacturer recommended cleaning agents or those supplied by the Tournament Organizer may be used to clean the surface. Lubricants are to be applied to the rods by dropper or sponge applicator. Spray-on lubricants are not permitted.
    
### 19.1.2

Any player using a substance to improve their grip must ensure that the substance does not get on the playing surface, rods, or balls. If the substance gets on the playing surface or rods, it must be cleaned off before resuming play and if the ball is affected, it must be replaced. The player in violation shall be penalized for delay of game. For subsequent violations, the player shall be charged with a Technical Foul and is prohibited from using the substance for the remainder of the tournament.

## 19.2

If a player uses any substance that leaves residue on the handles when switching sides of the table, the player will be issued a warning and must clean the handles immediately.


### 19.2.1

If the time necessary to remove the substance exceeds 90 seconds, the player will be penalized for delay of game. For subsequent violations, the player shall be prohibited from using the substance for the rest of the tournament.

## 19.3

A player may not place anything on the rods, handles or exterior of the table that affects the movement of the rods (example: limiting the motion of the goalie rod). Intentional bending or flexing of the rods to assist in gaining possession of the ball is illegal and is penalized with loss of possession to the opposing five-man rod.

## 19.4

A player may switch the handles on the exterior of the tables if it can be done within the time limits and without impeding the opponent’s ability to change sides between games. Taking too much time will be grounds for delay of game (See Rule 25).
  
## 19.5

Players are entitled to begin each match with brand new balls (if available) or they may agree to play with the existing balls at the table. If new balls are not available, the Tournament Organizer or Head Official shall select the best alternative.

### 19.5.1

It is illegal to request a different ball from inside the table while the ball is in play. During a dead ball or time out, a player may request a different ball from inside the table. Once a match has begun, it shall be illegal to put another ball into the table without permission from the opponent or Referee.

### 19.5.2

A player requesting a different ball while the ball is in play shall be charged with a time out, unless the Referee at the table determines the ball to be unplayable, in which case no time out will be charged.

## 19.6

Unless otherwise specified, penalty for violation of any part of this rule may be grounds for a technical foul.
