---
title: "20. Distraction"
date: 2017-09-05T21:34:14-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 220
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "distraction"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

Any movement or sound (including phones and electronic devices) made away from, or behind, the rod where the ball is in play may be judged as a distraction. It may be considered a distraction if the opponent taps the table top as a gesture of apology or approval during play. If a player believes he is being distracted, it is his responsibility to call for a Referee.

## 20.1

Banging the five-man rod or any rod prior to, during, or after a shot is considered a distraction. Moving the five-man rod slightly after the shot has started is not considered a distraction.

## 20.2

Talking between teammates while the ball is in play may be judged a distraction.

## 20.3

It is not considered a distraction, when passing, to move the catching rod as part of a fake. Excessive motion, however, is grounds for a distraction.

## 20.4

It is considered a distraction to clearly remove a hand from the handle and then immediately shoot the ball. The ball may only be shot after both hands (and/or wrist) have been on both handles for one full second. Sliding the wrist onto the handle is not considered a distraction unless otherwise determined by a Referee.

### 20.4.1

In Singles, a player is not required to have both hands on both handles for one full second when transitioning between the rods. Once the ball is in clear possession and control on the 3-man rod, Rule 20.4 applies.

## 20.5

A player who removes his hands from the handles and reaches down or away from the table (to wipe his hands, apply rosin, etc) while the ball is in play shall be charged with a distraction.

## 20.6

Penalty for distraction. For the first distraction violation, the guilty team may be charged with a warning if the Referee at the table determines the distraction to be harmless. If a shot is scored as a result of a distraction by the offensive team, the point will not count and the opposing team will serve the ball. In all other cases, the opposing team has the option of continuing play from the current position; continue play from the point of infraction, or serve the ball. Subsequent violations may be grounds for a technical foul.