---
title: "23. Passing"
date: 2017-09-05T21:46:15-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 250
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "passing"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

A ball which is advanced from a pinned or stopped position on the five-man rod cannot be directly caught on the forward three-man rod of the same team regardless of whether or not the ball is touched by the opposing five-man rod.

## 23.1

A pinned ball is one that is pinned to the wall or playfield. A stopped ball is one that has completely stopped but has not been immediately advanced.
  
### 23.1.1

Once the ball is considered pinned or stopped, it must touch at least two player figures before it can be legally passed to the forward three-man rod.
    
### 23.1.2

A ball that is briefly stubbed or pinched to the playing surface and advanced in the same motion can be legally caught on the three-man rod if the pass would otherwise be considered legal. If the ball is stubbed or pinched to the playing surface, released, and then passed by the same player figure it is considered an illegal pass.
    
### 23.1.3

It is not considered an illegal pass from the five-man rod if a stopped or pinned ball deflects off the same team’s three-man rod provided it was not caught and there was no controlled advancement by the three-man rod.
    
### 23.1.4

If the ball touches the front or back of the man prior to the motion of a pass it must touch a second man before it can be legally caught on the three-man rod (or five-man rod when passing from the goalie rods). However, if the ball hits the front or back of the man on the initial contact from another rod it can be legally passed with the same man.

## 23.2

On the five-man rod, the ball may not strike the side walls, or the side strips if present, more than two times. If the ball strikes the wall a third time, the serve will be awarded to the opposing five-man rod. (Exception: See Rule 23.2.1)
    
### 23.2.1

If the ball becomes stopped near or against the wall it may be bounced off the wall as many times needed to be moved away from the wall, however, once the ball strikes the wall a second time when being moved away from the wall, it must touch another player figure before it may be legally advanced.

### 23.2.2

Rule 23.2.1 will be counted as one of the two times the ball is allowed to strike the wall before it can be advanced and the time of possession shall continue to run.
    
### 23.2.3

Defensive trap – It is not counted as one of the two times the ball is allowed to strike the wall if an opponent's pass or shot is caught by being trapped against the side wall on the five-man rod.
    
### 23.2.4

Following a time-out, any strike the ball makes against the wall prior to touching a second man will not be counted against the allowed two strikes.

## 23.3

Passing from the two-man (or three-man goalie rod) to the same teams five-man rod is ruled the same as passing from the 5-man rod, except that, if the ball should strike an opposing team's player figure, the ball may be legally caught on the same teams five-man rod. The three wall violation is not in effect.
  
## 23.4

It is legal to have just one hand on the rods when playing defense (example: right hand on defensive five-man). It is also legal to use two hands to move one rod (example: defensive five-man). Excessive switching of the hand between the handles may be judged a distraction.

## 23.5

Penalty for an illegal pass - if a team violates the above rules of passing; the opposing team has the option to continue play from the current position or serve the ball.
