---
title: "27. Technical Fouls"
date: 2017-09-05T21:57:31-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 290
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "technical-fouls"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

If, in the judgment of an authorized tournament Referee, either team competing in a match is at any time in flagrant or intentional violation of these rules of play, a technical foul may be called on the offending team.

## 27.1

When a technical foul is called, play shall stop and the opponent will be awarded the ball on the three-man rod. Only the player shooting and the player blocking are allowed to stay at the table. One shot will be taken and then play shall stop. If a goal was scored, the ball is served by the team who was scored on. If no goal was scored, play shall resume from where the ball was prior to the technical shot or where specified by rules.

### 27.1.1

A player is considered to have taken a technical foul shot once the ball has left the three-man rod. A player is considered to have blocked the shot once the ball has either stopped in or left the defender's area.

## 27.2

On a technical foul shot, the ball must be legally put into play before shooting. Furthermore, all rules, including time limits and resets, still apply.

## 27.3

A team may switch positions before and/or after the technical foul shot without being charged with a time out.
  
## 27.4

Time outs may be called during a technical shot, as long as they would otherwise be legal
  
## 27.5

A point scored on an illegal technical shot shall not be counted. Play shall resume at the rod of possession where the technical foul was called or as specified by rule.

## 27.6

If a technical foul shot ends the game, the opposing team gets the first serve of the next game.

## 27.7

Further violations of a flagrant or intentional nature shall carry additional technical fouls. A third technical foul in any one game shall result in an automatic forfeiture of the game.

## 27.8

The Referee may announce at any time after the first technical foul that further violation by that team may be cause for forfeiture of the game or match.