---
title: "28. Rules Decisions and Appeals"
date: 2017-09-05T22:02:38-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 300
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "rules-decisions-and-appeals"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

If a controversy involves a question of judgment and a Referee was present at the time the events in question transpired, his decision is final and no appeal may be made. If the controversy involved an interpretation of the rules, or a Referee was not present at the time the events in question transpired, the Referee shall make the most equitable decision possible under the circumstances. Decisions of this nature may be appealed, but it must be done immediately in the manner prescribed below.

## 28.1

In order to appeal a rules interpretation, a player must file that appeal with the Referee before the ball being played at the time of the controversy is put back into play. An appeal concerning the loss of a match must be filed before the team that won has begun its next match.

## 28.2

All rule appeals shall be considered by the Head Official and (if present) at least two members of the officiating staff. All decisions on appeals are final.

## 28.3

A team making an unsuccessful rules appeal of an obvious nature, or a team that questions a judgment call, will be charged with a time out. In addition, the team may also be penalized for delay of game, at the discretion of the Referee.

## 28.4

Arguing with a Referee during a match will not be allowed. Violation of this rule will be grounds for a delay of game penalty and/or a violation of the code of ethics.
