---
title: "31. Side Events"
date: 2017-09-05T22:10:48-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 320
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "side-events"
aliases: []
toc: true
---

## Goalie War

Goalie War is a singles specialty event where the three-man and five-man rods are lifted and the player shoot against each other from the goalie positions.

### The Serve

  - To begin play, the ball must be moved from one player figure to another but may not be directly advanced from the second figure. After contacting the second player figure, the ball may be directly advanced by any other player figure.
  - The player does not have to stop the ball or wait prior to advancing the ball. The ball is considered to be in play and the time limits begin the moment the ball contacts the second player figure.
  - Violation is loss of possession.

### Possession

A player is considered to be in possession of the ball when it’s within reach of the goalie rods. Possession in the goalie area extends from the end of where the two-man rod reaches back to the goal. The center of the table is the remaining area of play.

  - During play, if the ball goes off the table or becomes dead between the two-man rods, it will be put back into play by the opponent of the player who had the last possession.
  - If the ball goes dead in the goalie area, it shall be put back into play from the goalie area of where the ball went dead.
  - A ball that strikes any rod, player figure, or bumper in the center of the table is still considered to be in play. These rods do not affect possession of the ball.

### Time Limits

Once the ball is put into play, the player has a ten second time limit to advance the ball. If the ball stops for more than three seconds, or is pinned for more than one second, it must touch another player figure before it may be legally advanced. Violation of any part of this rule is loss of possession to the opposing player.

## Four on Four

Four on Four is a specialty event with four players on each side of the table with each player controlling one rod with one hand. Players may not switch hands once the ball is put into play.

### Change of Positions

  - If a team scores a point, they must rotate positions before the ball is put into play. The player on the three-man rod shall move to the goalie-rods and the rest of the players shall move forward one rod.
  - A team may change their assembled positions before the match begins or between games. Once a game has begun, teams must maintain the same order of rotation for the remainder of the game.

### Legal Shots

  - The game is played Rollerball style, i.e., a ball may not be pinned for more than three seconds or stopped for more than one second. There is a ten second time limit per rod.
  - Once a ball is stopped or pinned it must touch another player figure before it may be legally advanced.
  - If a point is scored illegally, the ball shall be served by the opposing team.

## Two-Ball Rollerball

Two-Ball Rollerball is a specialty event that is played with two balls served simultaneously to begin play. 

### Time Limits

  - There is a ten second time limit per rod and the ball may not be pinned or stopped for more than one second.
  - If a ball is pinned or stopped for more than one full second with two balls in play, both balls shall be served again. If there is only one ball in play, it will be served by the opposing team.
  - A shot may be scored directly from a pinned or stopped position if done immediately and within the one second time limit.

### Serving the Ball

  - If there is a serving hole present, each forward shall serve a ball through the hole on the count of three. Both balls should hit the playfield within one second of each other.
  - If no serving hole is present, both defensive players shall simultaneously release the ball from the near corner of the goalie area within one second of the count of three.
  - If a ball goes off the table without any goals being scored, both balls shall be served again. Otherwise, the team scored upon shall serve the remaining ball.

### Scoring
  - If each team scores a goal, then neither team receives a point. Two balls are served again.
  - If a team has scored the first ball, they may stop play any time they have control of the second ball and take one point. If a team elects to take the point, two balls are served to begin the next point.
  - A team that scores both goals gets two points and two balls are served again to begin the next point.
  - A shot that goes "in and out" does not count as a goal scored in Two-Ball Rollerball and play shall continue.

## Forward Shoutout

Forward Shootout a singles specialty event where the players alternately shoot technical foul shots against each other from the three-man rods.

### Ball in Play

  - The first shot of the game is determined by a coin flip with subsequent shots alternating between players for the remainder of the game.
  - To begin each shot, the player with possession must follow the ITSF Ready Protocol to put the ball into play. Any violation will result in a loss of possession.

### Shooting

  - The ball is considered to have been shot once it leaves the forward's three man rod. The ball is considered to have been blocked once the ball has either stopped in or has left the goalie area.

### Time Limits

  - Players have a time limit of 15 seconds. The time limits begin one second after the ball has touched the second man.
