---
title: "4. Serve and Ready Protocol"
date: 2017-09-05T16:57:57-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 90
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "serve-and-ready-protocol"
aliases: []
toc: true
---

A serve is defined as putting the ball into play at the five-man rod at the beginning of a game, after a point is scored, or if the
ball is awarded to a player on the five-man rod following a rules infraction. The ready protocol will be used whenever putting
the ball into play.

## 4.1 The Serve. 

The serve shall begin with the ball stopped at the middle player figure of the five-man rod. The player serving the ball must then follow the ready protocol.

### 4.1.1

If the ball is served from a position other than the middle player figure and the violation is discovered before the ball is scored play shall stop and the ball will be re-served by the same team. Once a point is scored, no appeal shall be made. The penalty for subsequent violations is loss of possession to the opponent for serve.

## 4.2 Ready Protocol 

Before the ball can be put into play, the player in possession must ask the direct opponent if he or she is "ready". The direct opponent has three seconds to respond "ready". The player in possession now has three seconds to put the ball into play. Waiting beyond these time limits will be considered a delay of game ([See Rule 25](/foosball-rules/delay-of-game)).

### 4.2.1

The penalty for beginning to put the ball into play before the opponent responds “ready” is a warning and the ball shall be put into play from its original position. The penalty for subsequent violations is loss of possession to the opponent for serve.

### 4.2.2

To begin play, the ball must be moved from one player figure to another but may not be directly advanced from the second figure. After contacting the second player figure, the ball may be directly advanced by any other player figure. The player does not have to stop the ball or wait prior to advancing the ball. The ball is considered to be in play and the time limits begin the moment the ball contacts the second player figure.

### 4.2.3

The penalty for violation of rule 4.2.2 is the opponent's choice to either continue play from the current position (including the goal) or to serve the ball.
