---
title: "9. Time Out"
date: 2017-09-05T19:16:43-05:00
description: ""
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "foosball-rules"
    weight: 140
categories: []
#tags: []
slug: "time-out"
aliases: []
toc: false
---

Each team is allowed two time outs per game during which the players may leave the table. Such time outs shall not exceed 30
seconds. If the ball is in play, time out may only be called by the team in possession of the ball. If the ball is not in play, either
team may call time out.

## 9.1

Either team may take the full 30 seconds, even if the team that called the time out does not wish to take the full allotment.

## 9.2

In any doubles event, either team may switch positions during a time out. ([See Rule 14.1](/foosball-rules/change-of-positions#14-1))

## 9.3

A time out called between games shall count towards the number of time-outs allowed in the following game.

## 9.4

A player who removes both hands from the handles and turns completely away from the table while the ball is in play shall be deemed to have requested a time out.

### 9.4.1

A player can take his hands from the handles to wipe them off before a shot, as long as this takes no more than two or three seconds. All time limits continue to run while the player wipes his hands. The team on defense should not relax if the opponent takes his hand(s) off the rod.

### 9.4.2

Once the hand/wrist is replaced on the rod, a shot or pass may not be attempted until one full second has elapsed.

## 9.5

If the team with the ball attempts a shot or pass immediately after requesting a time out, the play shall not count and the team shall be charged with a distraction rather than a time out. ([See Rule 20](/foosball-rules/distraction/))

## 9.6

If the team in possession of the ball calls time out while the ball is in play and moving, the time out will not begin until the ball has completely stopped. If the time of possession expires before the ball completely stops, the team shall be penalized according to [Rule 24.3](/foosball-rules/time-of-possessions#24-3).

### 9.6.1

If the team not in possession of the ball calls a time out when the ball is in play, that team shall be charged with a distraction. ([See Rule 20](/foosball-rules/distraction))

### 9.6.2

If the ball falls into the same team’s goal after requesting a time out, the point shall count for the opposing team.

## 9.7

If a team is not ready to play at the end of the 30 second period, that team shall be charged with delay of game ([See Rule 25](/foosball-rules/delay-of-game)).

## 9.8

A team requesting more than two time outs per game shall be issued a warning and the request will be denied. If the team is in possession of the ball and the ball is in play they shall lose possession to the opposing five-man rod for serve. Subsequent requests will result in a technical foul.

### 9.8.1

A team that is charged with more than two time outs in a game due to delay of game, requesting a second Referee during play, losing an appeal, or any other reason will result in a technical foul.

## 9.9

Once a player begins to put the ball back into play following a time out (by moving the ball), another time out may not be called until the ball has left the current rod of possession. Both goalie rods are considered as one rod.

### 9.9.1

The Penalty for violation of rule 9.9 is loss of possession to the opposing goalie. The team shall not be charged with a time out.

## 9.10

During a time out a player may reach into the play area to lubricate the rods, wipe the playfield, etc. The ball may be picked up by hand as long as permission is granted by the opponent and is returned to its original position before resuming play. A request to move or pick the ball up can be declined by the opposing team or by the Referee if present at the table (e.g. when the ball is near the edge of the goal).

### 9.10.1

If a player picks the ball up after the request has been declined the ball will be awarded to the opponent’s five-man rod for serve. If the ball is on the edge of the same team’s goal, a point will be scored for the opponent.

### 9.10.2

If the team not in possession touches the ball or picks it up without permission, they will be charged with a technical foul.
